Welcome all.
So,
today we're going to
go ahead and
begin a new
chapter. So,
in this chapter,
we will
talk about...
I will basically be demonstrating
some more advanced
examples. So we will talk
a little bit about
the inclusion of other
libraries.
What that actually is
and what that stands for.
Logical operators,
relational operators,
and then finally we will
dive into the
if else statements,
conditional executions
and
operand combining
and the combinations
of operands.
So you will see what I mean
by this soon enough
but for the time being,
let's go ahead and
begin with
the inclusion of
other libraries.
I'm just going to go ahead
and quickly create a project.
Hopefully, you know how
to do this by now.
Project, title, how shall
we name this?
Ah, I don't know.
I'm just going to name it.
Chapter 3
You can name it
however you like.
I just told you the
list of subjects, so name it
give it a convenient and
an appropriate name
for user. You can come back
later, you could code and
know instantly
what it is.
I'm just going to
go ahead and click.
Next,
finish,
thank you very much.
Main
I'm going to delete this.
I know I can change the default
thing that the code blocks
ouputs but I'm a
very lazy person
in this regard.
So it's actually easier for me
to, I've deemed it easier
to delete every time as
supposed to permanently
change it.
Anyway, I'm not that used to
using code blocks but
it is a good ID for learning.
Let's go ahead and see
how to include libraries
as well as the basics,
as well as some other basics
in regard to that.
So we've already seen this.
I mean, nothing new, right.
include
io
stream
So,
we basically included
a library.
When including these
libraries,
we must place them in
lesser than and greater than
signs. So in between them
we basically just include
a library.
This is a library,
what I've selected.
Down below,
and go ahead and type in
string.
So string, same. Again,
no big deal, no difference.
Anyway in C++,
there is no need
for adding a
.H extension on
system libraries,
which is the case
in C.
So, I don't know in C,
for example, you would
have something like this.
include and you
could have
well,
time
oops
.H so this is still,
this would still
this should still
be valid here.
However, this is not
something that we
do in
C++ in general.
Not like this anyway.
If you have these things
you would...
My apologies.
You would actually put
this into quote marks.
And
that would be
time.h
like that.
So but we're not going to,
we're not going to
do that
now, not yet and
not in such a way.
Also because C++ is
compatible with C,
there was a special syntax
in naming
convention for including
libraries.
And you would
you would just use this
C, name of the library
and without using the
extension. For example,
I don't know, this is
what you would do without
the quote marks or
without pretty much,
without pretty much anything.
In C++ we can,
we can just
do this.
I've shown you time
a moment ago and we would do this
include
C
time
There we go.
So that's how you would
include time
without actually going,
without actually doing this.
This would be,
this would be C format.
And
this would be a C++
format of the same library.
So, no big deal.
In general,
the rule of the thumb,
so to say,
if you have
a library in C
and if you would like
to use that same library
in C++, if it exists,
I mean it's compatible,
so there was a compatability
between the two
and you should be
generally be able to use it.
You would just
do it like this, so.
include
And if the name of the
library,
let's just invent something,
and say, abc.h
So this is in C.
If it's like this in C,
it would just
you would just need to
do some slight alterations
and make it C++ compatible.
So you would just place
a C infront of this,
and you would delete the
.h
So,
this would be the
C syntax
of the same library,
abc.h
and
it doesn't exist, well,
maybe it does,
I don't know.
but I've basically randomly
placed letters here.
And if you would like to
include that same library
in a C++ program,
well, you would just
you would just
place C
infront of the name
of the library.
I'm sorry.
You would just place C
infront of the name of the library
and you would remove
.h
That's quite literally it.
There is nothing too
complicated,
nothing too complicated
about it.
Anyway, here's a step.
Few examples,
no big deal.
So,
include
std
lib.h
This is C.
And
include
c
stdlib
So this is C++.
Down below,
we can type in
include
time.h
as I stated before
and up above,
you have
ctime
So,
you have time.h,
which is c and ctime,
which is C++.
Now, there are also
non-system libraries
that can be included
by
stating the path
of the file inside
the double quotations.
For example,
you could have this.
include
Oh, sorry.
quote marks
Some
Lib.h
Now, this is not
going to compile.
Because some lib.h
doesn't exist.
If that exists, then okay.
But if it does not exist then
it's not going to compile.
This means that the library
SomeLib.h is located in
the same directory
as the file
that includes it.
If this is not the case,
so if this is not the case,
if this library file is
not exactly in the same folder,
you see I have chapter 3
here
and
it says here
chapter 3,
okay, main,
so if it's not in
this folder,
if that .h
what did I name it?
SomeLib
If SomeLib.h is not
located here
the program will not,
it will not run.
It will not compile,
that will be a
major problem.
However,
if it's not located there,
but if it's located elsewhere
on the system,
you are given an ability
to specify an absolute path.
So,
path
to
the
file
And you can specify
an absolute path
and then it will run
then it will be
combined.
So, there's just one
more thing that I would
briefly like to mention,
perhaps, not the most important
thing of them all.
Basically what happens
when we include
the same library
multiple times.
For example,
if I have included
string here,
and I
I don't know,
include it again.
So,
include
include string
So like this.
In that case,
compile will ignore
every other include
except the very first one
that was made.
So, it's a,
it's a very wasteful
and shameful
programming practice.
But no big deal. It
happens to,
happens to everyone
from time to time.
So don't worry about it.
It's not a major problem.
It's actually not a problem at all.
As I said, compiler will
ignore every other include
except the very first one
that was made.
So, we have learned
the way the compatability
in between C and C++
works.
We have
also learned
that you have system
libraries
and non-system libraries.
For non-system libraries,
unless the library is in that
exact same folder,
it will not run
unless the full path
to that library is given.
And this is how you would..
this is the syntax for including
non-system libraries. And up above,
you have syntax for including
system, a library as well.
This is for C and this is
for C++.
Again C,
C++, etc.
I bid you farewell.
And we're going to go
ahead
and jump into the
next tutorial,
where we will go ahead
and take a look at the
types of operators.